[Music]
welcome to the killcam where we tally up
the victims in all our favorite horror
movies I'm James a Chinese and today
we're looking at our first ever musical
on the killcount Sweeney Todd the Demon
Barber of Fleet Street released in 2007
by director Tim Burton this film was
based on the identically named Tony and
Grammy winning 1979 stage musical by
composer Stephen Sondheim who also
created West Side Story and into the
woods sometimes musical was itself based
on an earlier play by Christopher bond
which was one of many retellings of the
tale of Sweeney Todd of Victorian
villain whose literary history goes all
the way back to the string of pearls a
penny dreadful series from the 1840s
Sweeney Todd has always been a fixture
in British media with the appropriately
named actor Todd slaughter famously
playing the role in thousands of stage
performances and a 1936 movie so yeah
this was a well known role long before
that one episode of The Office attending
the tale of Sweeney Todd in fact it's
pretty amazing how many elements of the
story have remained the same since it
was first told over a hundred and fifty
years ago not only has Sweeney Todd
always been a murderous barber he's also
always had a trapdoor chair that sends
his victims into a basement where his
partner-in-crime mrs. Lovett has always
cooked their bodies into meat pies I've
been a Sweeney Todd fan since I saw a
filmed version of the musical in my
middle school band class long before
this film ever existed thanks mr.
Kinnett I was excited when I heard about
this movie being made and it lived up to
my expectations this is one dope-ass
big-budget musical adaptation that
translates the material to the big
screen so well even creator Stephen
Sondheim approves this really is an
attempt to take the material of the
stage musical and completely transform
it into a movie this is not a movie of
the stage show this is a movie based on
the stage show this was also one of
those rare respectable horror movies
that earned one Oscar win and a couple
other nominations Wow the Academy
recognizing a good horror movie love
when it happens which is rare
this is a Tim Burton movie it stars
Johnny Depp and Burton's then partner
Helena Bonham Carter who were both
pretty much born to play these parts
even if Depp's amateur singing didn't
quite match the film's Broadway origins
I think it works for the movie though
also working for the movie is it's Hardy
embrace of spurting neck blood after all
as the late great Alan Rickman points
out the film gives you the opportunity
unlike a stage production to do Sweeney
Todd with full blood that's why I'm
grateful for today's sponsor who happens
to have a bit of Barbara now I'm excited
to be partnering with Dollar Shave Club
to bring you this killcount and to
finally get this beard off my face it's
not a bad beard I just don't feel like
me with it
you know Dollar Shave Club can take care
of all your grooming needs from shower
stuff to do turrent and of course most
importantly shaving their starter sets
got a whole heap of goodies to keep your
skin happy including my favorite the
shave butter cuz it's fun to say shave
butter waitress mark shave butter you
can get the starter set for yourself for
only five bucks over at
dollarshaveclub.com slash dead meat with
it you can take care of your own shaving
and not have to visit any potential
demon barbers
how many meat pies will we make as we
sing ourselves through the streets of
London let's attend the tale of Sweeney
Todd and find out
[Music]
the movie begins with kick-ass Sondheim
music as we follow some very 2007 CGI
blood down into the floor and straight
into a title car it is with the warming
me nice side we kick things off on a
ghost pirate ship perp wait never mind
that's just mid 19th century London air
quality this kid Antony is thrilled to
be back that is until his words are used
against it no there's no place like
London yep Living Dead Man Sweeney Todd
over here says the London's a shit stain
on the underpants of the world which I
mean if you know anything about
Dickensian London he ain't wrong this
was before the city had developed a
proper sewerage system meaning it was
one stinking dirty place for instance
the River Thames the riding on there
with a colour varying from dark green to
black anyone who ventured near the water
and a danger of contracting cholera
typhus smallpox or tuberculosis fine of
course mr. Todd also has a personal
vendetta against these dirty streets
which he tells Antony about through saw
there was a bomb around his work
and she was beautiful this film was the
first time Johnny Depp had to sing in a
movie since his voice was dubbed over
for the singing parts and cry-baby
thankfully Depp was friends with music
producer Bruce witkin's since he had
originally wanted to be a rock star
before being cast in Nightmare on Elm
Street Wiccan worked with Depp to get
his singing up to snub starting with the
song my friends I basically that was the
first song I ever sang in my life you
know that's pretty weird
yeah having already been cast by Burton
death was under a lot of pressure to
perform well after all as producer
Richard zanuck notes we are spending
millions of dollars on the picture not
one person on earth at her Johnnie sank
and he used to start the picture by the
way if dick zanuck looks familiar it's
because he and his producing partner
David Brown were pivotal in getting jaws
made back in 1975 dude was a huge force
in the film industry and helps Spielberg
and Burton make it big
Preston piece guy Todd continues his
song about the barber Benjamin Barker
and his wife Lucy who were a happy
couple with a happy baby daughter but
one day while they were glowing outside
in the flower market or some shit a
severe-looking judge named Turpin came
upon that one look at that radiance was
all it took for him and his ratty
henchman Beadle Bamford to SiC the
police on the unfortunate barber Barker
was sent away to Australia I think and
never learned what became of his wife
Lucy now 15 years later Benjamin Barker
is back with a brand new name and no
handshakes to give he returns to his old
stomping ground on Fleet Street which
you can tell from this wild and wacky
look at it his one destitute destination
he enters a meat pie shop owned by mrs.
Lovett who tries to sing his cash into
her till with the worst sales pitch I've
ever heard
yeah probably Plus everyone else is
selling bug pies to her pies are
straight nasty because she can't afford
good meat instead she's been killing and
using alley cats for supplies which
gives us this incredible line yup she's
making pussy pot pies all of that felt
gross to say like Johnny Depp Helena
Bonham Carter had never performed in a
musical before although she had been a
fan of Sondheim Sweeney Todd since she
was a child mrs. Lovett I wanted to be
her since I was 11 and I went around
apparently mrs. Lovett head tubes
obviously being with Burton helped her
get an audition but Sondheim himself had
final approval over casting and was
happy with Carter's vocal abilities
after her three-month crash course and
singing feeling bad about feeding him
her fill mrs. Lovett takes mr. Todd into
her apartment where he asks about the
room he sees is vacant above her shop
she says no one will rent it because
it's on Tim but why don't you expound
upon that a little bit mrs. Lovett oh
actually you know what I think he knows
this one well it is able to fill him in
on what happened to Lucy after Barker's
exile though Turpin tried courting her
which she steadfastly refused until she
was eventually convinced by Beadle
Bamford to come and collect an apology
from the judge she arrived at his home
to find a costume ball going on and it
was here that the judge promptly raped
her in public yo y'all are fucked up
when that shit go down especially you
Beatle you extra nasty Sweeney Todd's
outraged reaction out Sina's Benjamin
Barker to mrs. Lovett who tells him his
lovely Lucy poisoned herself shortly
after the ball poke the app and also
judge Turpin's got his daughter Johanna
and has raised her as his own welcome
home Todd tells her he has a new name
now and moves into his old room which
gotta say it's not a great way to
maintain an alias hey who's that new guy
who looks like Benjamin Barker and who
moved into Benjamin Barker's old place
you think that's Benjamin Barker from
beneath the floorboards mrs. Lovett
retrieves a box she's been saving for
mr. Todd and in it is a set of shiny
silver straight razors upon seeing them
Sweeney Todd declares himself the
loneliest man in the world
he strikes a couple of poses with his
friends and even double-fist some all
while mrs. Lovett gets thirsty and tries
to woo him with her cleavage damn better
luck next time love it but that's what
you get for trying to get busy before
he's even got all his limbs together my
there you go that's how you dramatically
complete a man elsewhere in the
shithouse city the Lannister looking
Antony here's a beautiful voice coming
through a window its Sweeney Todd's baby
girl Johanna trapped in her bedroom like
so many caged burns while she's looking
at Antony down below Judge Turpin is
looking at her through a peephole that's
undoubtably drilled into a very sticky
wall Antony learns who Johanna is from a
miserable woman on the street and
immediately starts to sing about her and
what he'd like to do
[Music]
enjoy
whoops don't upset the quiet part loud
dude cuz here's Judge Turpin beckoning
Anthony inside Turpin who's wearing the
dopest ass outfit I've ever seen learns
that Anthony is a sailor and thusly
shows off his worldly knowledge the
geishas of Japan the concubines of sand
the catamites of Greece olives okay
judge we did it
you've got hoes in different area codes
Turpin suggests Stanton E that he'd take
a hike to one of those locales after
what he saw him do it
you gandered at my ward and there was a
clearly visible sign saying no gathering
he threatens Antony and kicks him out
with beetles telling the boy to go on
and gear and take your smelly ass gym
bag too bitch Todd and Lovett head into
these surely disease-filled town square
where a pop-up stage is set for signor
Pirelli
king of barbers at Barbara King sir
Ellie's opening act is this dirty little
lad with a drum hoop Whitely takes the
stage well yes you can you nice young
starving boy this kid Toby hypes up his
boss as the man behind the elixir that
gave him this head of mcGarry's hair
despite his well performed jingle for
the serum Toby loses the crowd after
Todd makes a declaration about its
context smells like fish
[Music]
wah wah wah whee-wah later though
Farrelly himself is standing on stage
and presenting his bulge to defend his
elixir Todd challenges Pirelli to a good
old-fashioned shaving contest and with
one whip a decay Pirelli accepts ban ass
Beadle Bamford a grease to judge the
competition and the Fleet Street Ian's
get really into it because people back
then were so fucking bored they would
form a crowd just to watch some dudes
get shaved Pirelli sings as he works but
his grandstanding is no match for Todd's
Wolverine strike unleashed upon his
subjects face he's declared the winner
according to rules that were never
really made clear and win some prize
money from Pirelli as well as some
interest from potential customers you
should surely see me there before the
week is out how are you about to shave a
Beatle they got such hard shells days
later
Antony returns to Joanna's window-side
where she tosses him a key to her room
he takes it and rushes over to his boat
buddy mr. Todd to who he spills all that
delicious Johanna tea including his
intent to steal her away and to me asked
Todd if he can hide her there at the
shop and perhaps because the lad reminds
him of a younger version of himself
Todd agrees to the arrangement before
sending the Sailor on his way Pirelli
arrives at the barber shop on announce
Toby in tow and while mrs. Lovett tends
to the boys empty stomach Pirelli heads
upstairs to confront the old Swain stir
he reveals that he's neither Italian nor
dumb he knows who Todd really is used to
pinch him in thumb Pirelli knows because
he used to apprentice for Barker back
when he was a kid and he recognized
Barker's silver friends during their
historic shaving competition he tries to
blackmail Todd but that only earns him
much kettle to the face and a seriously
scolded beat down from the very pissed
off Sweeney Todd man does that guy got
some anger inside him Pirelli ends up
stuffed inside a chest and after seeing
that he's still alive
Todd finishes him off with a slit of the
throat crazy how bloody this movie gets
for such a mainstream film he's got a
respect man after condemning a child in
court to a death by hanging sorry little
buddy Turpin tells the big bad
beetleborgs that he plans to go full-on
Woody Allen
and Mary his ward Johanna only for some
reason when he told her this plan she
wasn't all that jazz beetle Italy tells
Turpin that Johanna will surely be more
excited after the judge gets himself a
good shape and he knows just the barber
to do it say no more beetlebum let's go
over at the meat pie shop toby stuffs
his face removes his wig and shoots some
gin before lova decide she'd better
check on mr. Todd needs a boat funny
joke here but it was also an unfortunate
reality back then
Irish nurses gave it to the pauper
children to keep them quiet which it did
permanently in the mid 18th century over
nine thousand children died of gin
poisoning a 19th century London fuckin
saw upstairs loved it determines Todd's
crime through both inference and hard
evidence but comes around to supporting
the murder when Todd says Pirelli tried
to blackmail lemon nestea noodles with
no harm done snatchy snatching Todd's
willing to cut Toby's neck as well just
to tie up all the loose ends here but
Lovett convinces him that the boy would
be useful as a shop key who's we can
have to still company Cheney before Todd
can tell her about the dangers of
adolescent cirrhosis he sees the judge
and his beetle approaching he kicks love
it out and puts on his finest woman's
jacket - welcome Judge Turpin into his
shop in spite of its uninspiring
interior Turpin sings into Todd's face
that he would like one shave please and
sits down to start an acapella group
with his new Cruella De Vil haired
acquaintance a bomb
as the shaving commenced both men sing
about pretty women and one of my
favorite songs on the soundtrack
although honestly I could probably say
that about every song on the soundtrack
I rock hard to Sweeney Todd dog as with
Depp and Carter this was Alan Rickman's
first foray into musicals a daunting
task when Sondheim himself was present
during production it's so tough and it's
so ridiculous what you're about to do ie
sing for Stephen Sondheim that time
something in the body just says well
then just do it
the actors all recorded their songs and
sound booths by themselves before they
ever arrived on set to film any scenes
together having the singing parts done
already made some things easier for them
the pre record is the guide and is also
the safety net in a sense you don't
necessarily have to hit the note
properly you know each time on set
although it did was that other unique
difficulties they had to then deal with
say sometimes you did come a cropper he
thought like oh I think we're gonna look
at me of that that was what I'd imagined
in my booth of course when you're acting
on your own and a booth your other actor
is always gonna do what you want and
then when they once that they've got
different ideas Todd and terpenes
beautiful back and forth duet isn't
enough to make the barber forgive the
man who raped his wife so he puts his
blade up to the judges neck wholly for
fuck-boy Antony to charge in and balls
it all off screaming about his Johanna
napping plans Johanna pings
Joanne tapping the judge dresses him
down like a child on death row and
charges out of the shops leaving Todd
absolutely furious over his missed
opportunity he reiterates his hatred of
all things London then steps it up a
notch by saying there ain't a single
person here who shouldn't get guy
[Music]
pretty extreme beliefs there my dude but
I will give you credit for your
consistency he fantasizes about seeing
his daughter and getting revenge against
the judge well in the meantime he'll
kill a bunch of random people you know
just to keep his blade sharp she know
some Obrecht some nice or a booth trip
downstairs as Toby takes a pine flavored
nap mrs. Lovett comes up with an idea of
what they can do with Pirellis body with
the poison be told it is when you get it
if you go do good she got it she may not
be a star Baker but she is skilled at at
least one area
I'm not business the two of them sing
about cooking up a variety of
professionals from priests to poets in a
song filled with lots of fun ponds is
the politician so only what is on the
bum high lob out throughout the number
Todd can hardly contain his blood loss
nor love it her lost lost turban catches
Joanna in the act of packing for her
getaway with Antony and as punishment he
has her shoved into a carriage and taken
away
Antony sees it happen and after Turpin
fucking creditor poses on him he runs
after his recast object of affection he
sings through cemeteries and past opium
dens until he finally locates Joanna up
in the window at fogs asylum poor thing
at the barber shop Sweeney Todd engages
in a full-on Little Monsters montage to
rig his barber's chair into a body dump
enthroned about now listen my man if you
spent a whole montage making it you'd
better spend one using it too oh what's
that you are great during this cavalcade
of kills Todd slits various throats
while singing about Joanna
after each kill he dumps the bloody body
down his newly installed corpse chute
sending it into the basement from which
mrs. Lovett emerges with freshly baked
meat pies he cuts a total of five
throats during this song giving us a
mighty fine edition of kills alongside a
whole bunch of spurting blood this
sequence showcases the movie's fantastic
practical effects which use prosthetics
designed by Neal Scanlan whose work I
previously highlighted when I covered
both from me
and Jurassic world falling Kingdom dude
makes great dinosaur stanlon and his
team experimented with many different
stabbing and slashing techniques until
they found in effect that Burton liked
most one that used over a gallon of
blood for each kill what we're trying to
do is to push the boundaries to the
slightly ludicrous by doing that you
take the audience away from that feeling
this is real using a series of two it's
not a big truck blood was pumped through
an appliance attached to each actor
being killed on screen then full-size
dummies were made with interlocking soft
foam body parts that moved realistically
for the corpse dumping from Todd's chair
which by the way was a fully functioning
construction made by effects supervisor
Joss Williams and production designer
Dante Ferretti who won an Oscar for his
work here
well deserved - since Ferretti built the
giant sets that made up Fleet Street in
all of its buildings like I've said
before a good set can do wonders for an
actor's performance since it makes it
that much easier to immerse yourself in
a film's fantasy world mrs. Lovett has a
grand reopening for her meat pie shop
complete with the sweet sonic sounds of
Toby the Boy Wonder and some outdoor
lighting that you could find at half a
dozen restaurants in Silverlake everyone
seems excited save for that miserable
homeless woman who has seen the black
smoke of the meat pie shop and has
claimed it's meant mischief many times
over
she tries to crash the eatery but la
bete has Toby shoo her away and aside
from that unwelcome visitor the night
goes real well for loved' and her shop
with business booming love it turns her
attention towards her personal life in
the films only sequence that doesn't
make me feel like I need to wipe a layer
of grime off my monitor she pitches to
Todd that he should forget about
vengeance and just let her kisses cheek
all day in the song by the seat a
notoriously difficult number to sing
since it doesn't account for oxygen
intake I know I know
Duffy the song sequence depicts a dream
life for mrs. Lovett wherein she and
Todd get to where fun outfits on the
beach and sip tea on the porch these
outfits like all of the immaculately
done period costumes in this movie were
designed by the incredible Colleen
Atwood whose work here was nominated for
an Oscar Sweeney Todd let's love it go
on with her fantasy up to and including
a marriage with truly passionate vials
makers willing to be on
oh ho not so happy there Casanova that's
a place of God love it finishes her song
by telling Todd to move on from his
missing daughter and dead wife after all
life is for the living
Anthony makes another dramatic entrance
and tells table that he's located Joanna
much to mrs. Lovett's chagrin Tom forms
a plan for Antony to go rescue her but
after sending him away he writes a
letter to Judge Turpin straight up
snitch and on the web six sailor he
finishes writing his tattle tale and
gives it to Toby to deliver then paces
the day away in front of his giant
window overlooking the street wait has
he been killing people in front of that
thing this whole damn time when Toby
gets home later he tells mrs. Lovett he
really loved its hearse and she saved
him from doing more dangerous child
labor seems like the good Lord sent you
for me great sentiment toasters well
just think about it
[Music]
hear that love it your own personal 80
pound bodyguard he tells her that
Sweeney's a weenie and undeserving of
her loss and after he sees Pirellis coin
purse and is told it was a gift from mr.
Todd oh hell that just settles it for
the kid time to go to the police
Lubbock tells him to hold his goddamn
horses for a minute cuz how would he
like a promotion instead Congrats Toby
now you're a baking boy and your lessons
begin immediately here's the giant scary
furnace used for coking and here's the
giant scary grinder used for grinding
she tells him to give that a whirl while
she locks him inside the basement and
Ponder's what to do with him under
disguise as an apprentice wig maker
Antony wins entry to Boggs Asylum asking
to see his blond inmates for supplies he
holds Fogg up and escapes with Joanna
allowing the inmates to swarm their
keeper but I don't know if he gets
killed or not so I'm not gonna put him
on the list
Beadle arrives at the barbershop in
response to the stinky smoke that's been
emanating from the bakery but before he
can check out the cook room
Todd convinces him to come upstairs for
some free cologne and ROM which honestly
doesn't sound like a bad groomsmen gift
making a note and done Toby tries to
enjoy himself in the basement by eating
free meat pies but that plan goes south
when he finds little jack horner thumb
instead of a plum inside
oh shit little man the meat pies come
from people people like Beadle Bamford
whose body crashes down the chute
blowing his brains out better cover that
ish with a half Todd and Lovett come
downstairs to deal with Toby but the boy
obeyed them and they're singing search
by hiding below the sewer grade man
you're missing out on a free shave their
tow dog as they look for the child they
hope to murder and Toomey arrives
upstairs with Joanna and tells her to
stay put as he goes to look for Todd
make yourself at home while he's gone
Joe you can unknowingly enjoy your own
baby pictures
Joanna hides in a chest when that
vagrant who's been orbiting the story
this whole time walks right through the
door she's looking for Beadle Bamford
whom she saw enter the shop with Todd
earlier but instead she finds the barber
himself and he is not in the mood for
her nonsense even if she's not exactly a
stranger
next time with the judge calling out for
him
Todd slits the throat of the miserable
woman and it's a good thing she knows
how to die standing up cuz that keeps
her over the trapdoor long enough for
Todd to send her to the basement Turpin
arrives asking where Joanna is and Todd
tells him good news she's on her way
right now and better news she's all of a
sudden pumped to marry him how about an
engagement shame oh but actually judge
there's also some bad news
Sweeney Todd is Benjamin Barker
[Music]
benjamn bullshit motherfucker stabbed
him with that razor he stabs him
multiple times in fact sending blood all
over the place before he delivers one
final throat slash that's not quite
enough to finish Turpin off since he
still has enough life in him to give
mrs. Lovett a scare but he does die soon
enough so no worries Todd retires his
friends and discovers his daughter
although he mistakes her for a common
youth in need of a good shave he stopped
by a scream from lovin as she finds
Judge Turpin so he lets Johanna go and
leaves to see what's going on in the
basement by the light of the cooking
furnace Todd realizes that the miserable
woman he just murdered was actually his
dearest Lucy
turns out Lovett misled Todd letting him
think that Lucy died from taking poison
whereas in reality the poison just
messed her up in the head and left her
homeless Todd grabs loved' and gives her
one last dance before chucking her into
the furnace and closing and locking the
door damn all that hair about to smell
real bad as it burns bra the hope I
guess y'all were probably already
dealing with that problem
Todd cradles his dead wife's body and
reprises the song about the barber and
his wife while Toby emerges from the
sewer with some teenage mutant ninja
benjin's on his mind as the boy takes
one of Todd's friends off the ground
the barber I think senses his presence
and presents his neck for cutting having
no good reason to live anymore
Toby obliges and splits Sweeney Todd's
throat giving the barber a taste of his
own bloody medicine haha he's just
dripping it all down into Lucy's dead
face Krauss did the movie ends with the
barber dying in the basement of the Bake
Shop and it was beautiful how many
corpses got cooked into meat pies let's
finally finish the shave and get to the
numbers there were 11 deaths in Sweeney
Todd only two of them were women meaning
nine of them were dudes but thankfully
the most innocent characters like Antony
avoided being cooked into this human
meat pie chart with a beefy runtime of
116 minutes that left us with a kill on
average about every 10 and a half
minutes I'll give the golden chainsaw
four coolest kill to Judge Turpin nearly
every kill in this movie was the same
all razor blades and blood sprays the
terpenes was the most graphic besides
maybe the old beetle Bamford's brain
Boston but terpenes death had more
importance to it the old machete 4
lamest kill will go to the fourth kill
in that montage I guess since it was
shot from behind and thus at the least
visible gore and that's it
Sweeney Todd the Demon Barber of Fleet
Street came out in 2007 and is pretty
friggin awesome
next week is a Star Wars super cut and
then a bonus kill count of Valentine for
Valentine's Day but until all that I'm
James a Chinese it's been the killcam
thanks a lot for watching this kill
count on Sweeney Todd I wanted
some patrons like david story jim fasoli
Krista Allen Vaughan Zachary Jordan
gambit and a special thanks to my
moderator spork who gave me that Sweeney
Todd action figure back there
thanks for key and another thanks to
Dollar Shave Club for sponsoring this
episode and my shave thanks everyone be
good people